PHYSICAL:
physical components of the hardware used in networking and is the lowest layer that you will find. Devices use electrical signals to transfer data between each other in a binary numbering system (1's and 0's).
Ethernet

DATA LINK:
The data link layer focuses on the physical addressing of the transmission. It receives a packet from the network layer (including the IP address for the remote computer) and adds in the physical MAC (Media Access Control) address of the receiving endpoint.

NETWORK:
The third layer of the OSI model (network layer) is where the magic of routing & re-assembly of data takes place (from these small chunks to the larger chunk).
OSPF (Open Shortest Path First) 
RIP (Routing Information Protocol)

TRANSPORT:
TCP is used for situations such as file sharing, internet browsing or sending an email. This usage is because these services require the data to be accurate and complete (no good having half a file!).
UDP is useful in situations where there are small pieces of data being sent. For example, protocols used for discovering devices (ARP and DHCP that we discussed in Room 2 - Intro to LAN) or larger files such as video streaming (where it is okay if some part of the video is pixelated. Pixels are just lost pieces of data!)
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)
User Datagram Protocol (or UDP for short)

SESSION:
Once data has been correctly translated or formatted from the presentation layer (layer 6), the session layer (layer 5) will begin to create and maintain the connection to other computer for which the data is destined. When a connection is established, a session is created. Whilst this connection is active, so is the session.
The session layer is also responsible for closing the connection if it hasn't been used in a while or if it is lost. Additionally, a session can contain "checkpoints," where if the data is lost, only the newest pieces of data are required to be sent, saving bandwidth. 

PRESENTATION:
Layer 6 of the OSI model is the layer in which standardisation starts to take place
Security features such as data encryption (like HTTPS when visiting a secure site) occur at this layer.

APPLICATION:
The application layer of the OSI model is the layer that you will be most familiar with. This familiarity is because the application layer is the layer in which protocols and rules are in place to determine how the user should interact with data sent or received.




